2 min read 
 
 
 DCGI Suspends Entod Eye Drop Approval Over Misleading Claims; Company Denies Charges, to Challenge in Court
 
 The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has suspended the approval for PresVu, a drug that its maker Entod Pharmaceuticals had claimed can reduce the dependence on wearing glasses in adults suffering from a condition called presbyopia.. The drug regulator debarred the company from manufacturing and marketing it, citing unapproved claims.. However, the Entod CEO Nikkhil Masurkar responded to the decision stating, The suspension order makes no reference to any specific violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, and we have decided to challenge this suspension in court to seek justice..  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 Updated On Sep 11, 2024 at 10:10 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By Prathiba Raju and Abhijeet Singh Mumbai: After creating a buzz in medical circles with claims that its eye drop  could potentially replace reading glasses for those suffering from , the promising story of seems to be heading towards an anti-climactic end.. The controversy arose after the company made certain claims about its drug that were not in line with the regulatory approval.. The DCGI suspended the approval for the newly launched drug, prohibiting the company from manufacturing and marketing it.. The regulator stated that the company tried to justify claims for which approval had not been granted.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 An official communiqu issued by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO) stated, The company made claims for the drug product for which it had not obtained approval from the Central Licensing Authority, thereby violating provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019.. In response, , CEO of Entod Pharmaceuticals, asserted, The suspension order from the DCGI does not reference any specific violation of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act for this action.. Regarding the companys next steps, he stated, We have decided to challenge this suspension in court to seek justice.. Addressing the reasons cited by the domestic drug regulator, the CEO further added, Entod Pharmaceuticals has not made any unethical or false presentations of facts to the media or public concerning PresVu .. All information disclosed to the media was based on the recent DCGI approval for the treatment of presbyopia in adults and the results of our phase 3 clinical trial conducted in India.. Defending the drug, Masurkar elaborated in a statement, Our approval by the DCGI was based on a valid controlled clinical trial in 234 patients, which successfully demonstrated the efficacy and safety of these eye drops in presbyopia patients, as measured using Snellens charta standard for assessing near vision improvement.. 
 
 Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Masurkar also pointed out, Similar eye drops with the same active ingredient and concentration have been approved by the and marketed in the US for the past three years without any serious complications.. The has taken no action against companies marketing the same product in the USA.. Last month, the DCGI, under the CDSCO, had granted approval to manufacture and market Pilocarpine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution USP 1.. 25% w/v for the treatment of presbyopia in adults.. However, following several media reports, the DCGI issued a notice directing the company to justify claims of being the first eye drop in India designed to reduce the need for reading glasses.. Notably, several top officials within the company had previously told news agency ANI that there had been "unethical and false presentations of facts by media" regarding PresVu Eye Drops.. These claims were later denied by the company noting the issue has been made sensational by the media.. By 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 11, 2024 at 10:10 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.