2 min read 
 
 
 Zydus completes Phase II(a) clinical study of NLRP3 inhibitor 'Usnoflast' in ALS patients
 
  Usnoflast (ZYIL1) is a novel, oral small molecule NLRP3 inhibitor.. Studies have demonstrated that Usnoflast is highly potent in human whole blood assay and can suppress inflammation caused by the NLRP3 inflammasome.. Usnoflast was found distributed in the brain and CSF of various nonclinical species including mice, rats and non-human primates.. The efficacy of Usnoflast has been established in several pre-clinical models of neuroinflammation, Parkinsons disease, Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and Multiple Sclerosis (MS).. , 
 
 
 
 
 Updated On Sep 11, 2024 at 05:07 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: Zydus announced the completion of its Phase II(a) clinical study of NLRP3 inhibitor Usnoflast (ZYIL1) in patients with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS).. ALS patients experience neuroinflammation and rapid neurodegeneration.. Axonal neurodegeneration leads to formation of neurofilaments which first accumulate in CSF of ALS patients, and then slowly these neurofilaments enter blood circulation.. Owing to rapid neurodegeneration, steady loss of the ability to move, speak, eat, eventually breathe, paralysis and death have been reported in ALS patients.. ALS affects approximately 32,000 people in the US and on an average 5,000 new patients are diagnosed every year with this disease in the US as per statistics from (CDC).. More than 30,000 people are estimated to be living with ALS in Europe (European Union and UK), while India has an estimated 75,000 people living with ALS.. People living with ALS have an two to five years from diagnosis, with most ALS patients dying from respiratory failure.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Speaking on the development, Pankaj Patel, Chairman, Zydus Lifesciences Limited, said, We are excited to report that Usnoflast has been able to reach therapeutic concentrations in CSF of ALS patients and reduce the neurofilaments in CSF in this initial Phase 2(a) study.. in ALSFRS-R score.. The improvement observed in SVC (slow vital capacity) in ALS patients has been encouraging in this 12-week trial.. We now look forward to conducting a larger with the regulatory authorities.. The Phase 2(a) randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial recruited 24 ALS patients across seven clinical trial sites in India and evaluated the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of Usnoflast in subjects with ALS [ClinicalTrials.. gov Identifier: NCT05981040].. Zydus will publish the detailed clinical trial results in leading medical journals and upcoming scientific conferences.. Usnoflast (ZYIL1) is a novel, oral small molecule NLRP3 inhibitor.. Studies have demonstrated that Usnoflast is highly potent in and can suppress inflammation caused by the NLRP3 inflammasome.. Usnoflast was found distributed in the brain and CSF of various nonclinical species including mice, rats and non-human primates.. The efficacy of Usnoflast has been established in several pre-clinical models of neuroinflammation, Parkinsons disease, (IBD) and Multiple Sclerosis (MS).. Usnoflast, has an acceptable absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion (ADME) profile, with a good safety margin.. In Phase I studies, Usnoflast was found to be safe and well-tolerated [NCT04731324, NCT04972188].. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Zydus has established the Phase 2 proof-of-concept in CAPS patients [NCT05186051] and had earlier published the data in the journal .. The US FDA has granted Zydus an Orphan Drug Designation for Usnoflast to treat patients with (CAPS), a rare auto-inflammatory disease.. Zydus has initiated a Phase 2 clinical study of Usnoflast in Ulcerative Colitis [ClinicalTrials.. gov ID NCT06398808].. By 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 11, 2024 at 05:07 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.