1 min read 
 
 
 Neurocrine halts development of schizophrenia drug as trial fails
 
 The company said the drug, luvadaxistat, did not replicate the results from a previous mid-stage trial that showed improved cognitive performance, due to a large variability in the cognitive measures across the patients and a potential imbalance in their baseline characteristics.. Updated On Sep 13, 2024 at 07:09 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: Neurocrine Biosciences said on Thursday it will halt the development of its experimental drug, aimed at improving in patients with schizophrenia, after it did not achieve the primary goal in a .. The company said the drug, , did not replicate the results from a previous mid-stage trial that showed improved , due to a large variability in the cognitive measures across the patients and a potential imbalance in their baseline characteristics.. In the previous study, luvadaxistat failed to meet the main goal of change from baseline in of schizophrenia, however, it met the secondary goal of improving cognitive performance.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Neurocrine said it will focus its resources on late-stage development of its other schizophrenia and depression .. Shares of the company were down 2.. 5 per cent in extended trading.. Last month, the company said its other , NBI-1117568, helped reduce the severity of symptoms in a mid-stage trial, but there were concerns whether the benefit could be replicated in larger trials.. (Reporting by Puyaan Singh; Editing by Mohammed Safi Shamsi and Shinjini Ganguli) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 13, 2024 at 07:05 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.