2 min read 
 
 
 Weight-loss market to see 16 new drugs by 2029, report estimates
 
 In a joint report published on Monday, analysts estimated the market for obesity treatments could expand to $200 billion by 2031.. The 16 drugs could launch by 2029, with roughly $70 billion of the GLP-1 market coming from these new challengers.. Updated On Sep 11, 2024 at 12:43 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: The market for is expected to see 16 of the and Eli Lilly, according to estimates from analysts at Morningstar and Pitchbook.. In a joint report published on Monday, analysts estimated the could expand to $200 billion by 2031.. The 16 drugs could launch by 2029, with roughly $70 billion of the GLP-1 market coming from these new challengers.. WHY IT'S IMPORTANT Surging demand for Novo's Wegovy and Lilly's Zepbound has to test their own weight-loss treatments.. Companies such as Amgen and Pfizer are currently in clinical trials.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 These developments come over the high costs associated with these medications.. The new entrants, however, are expected to drive down prices as they vie for market share, according to the report.. CONTEXT The potential new treatments include those from Boehringer Ingelheim and Zealand Pharma, along with competitors from Roche, Amgen and Pfizer, according to the report, provided that the drugs clear clinical trials.. Other entrants include those by Structure Therapeutics , Viking Therapeutics and Altimmune, along with next-generation drugs by Novo and Lilly.. Analysts, last year, had would be $170 billion by 2031, but have recently raised their estimates, partly due to anticipated higher diabetes market penetration.. The report projects 41 per cent individuals with diabetes and nearly one-quarter of nondiabetic obesity patients will be on a GLP-1 drug by 2031.. WHAT'S NEXT Analysts expect significant acquisitions by major pharmaceutical companies in the obesity sector over the next 18 months, targeting smaller companies specializing in obesity drug development.. Potential acquisition targets include firms such as Structure, Viking and Altimmune.. Private companies such as NodThera, Corteria and Diasome have a higher-than-50 per cent chance of being acquired, according to PitchBook data.. (Reporting by Sneha S K in Bengaluru; Editing by Mohammed Safi Shamsi) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 11, 2024 at 12:37 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.