J&Js Rybrevant combination shows positive overall survival trend in late-stage lung cancer study
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alterations in EGFR are among the most common driver mutations in NSCLC patients
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Johnson & Johnsons (J&J) Rybrevant (amivantamab-vmjw) combination has demonstrated a positive overall survival trend in adults with lung cancer, according to new late-stage results shared by the company.. The phase 3 MARIPOSA-2 study has been evaluating the EGFRxMET bispecific antibody alongside chemotherapy in previously treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 deletions (ex19del) or L858R substitution mutations.. The results presented at this years European Society of Medical Oncology Congress showed that 50% of patients treated with Rybrevant plus chemotherapy were alive at 18 months, compared to 40% of those receiving chemotherapy alone.. J&Js combination was associated with a significant improvement in treatment discontinuation rates, the company said, with 22% of patients remaining on therapy at 18 months versus 4% in the chemotherapy group.. Rybrevant plus chemotherapy also demonstrated a 27% reduction in the risk of symptomatic progression, significantly extended the time to subsequent therapy, and reduced the risk of second disease progression or death by 36% compared to chemotherapy alone.. NSCLC accounts for up to 85% of all lung cancer cases and alterations in EGFR are among the most common driver mutations in patients with this form of the disease.. Rybrevant is already authorised to treat certain cases of lung cancer in markets around the world.. Last month, it was by the European Commission in combination with carboplatin and pemetrexed chemotherapy to treat advanced NSCLC in adults with EGFR ex19del or L858R substitution mutations who have failed on prior therapy, including an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor.. Commenting on the latest results for the therapy, Joshua Bauml, vice president, lung cancer disease area stronghold leader, J&J Innovative Medicine, said: We are pleased to see that Rybrevant plus chemotherapy continues to show improved survival outcomes after a year and a half of follow-up, providing real benefits to patients with few other options.. These results underscore the potential of this combination regimen to make a meaningful difference for patients, and we anticipate continued improvement as we move toward the final analysis.. 
The data comes just days after J&J has positive longer-term results from the phase 3 MARIPOSA trial, which has been evaluating Rybrevant plus Lazcluze, a third-generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in NSCLC.