Hologic survey reveals major screening action gap in millions of US women
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 An estimated 72 million women in the US have skipped or delayed recommended preventative screening 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A US survey commissioned by Hologic and conducted by Gallup has revealed a major Screening Action Gap between millions of women living in the US and preventative healthcare.. An estimated 72 million women have either skipped or delayed a recommended screening, which can potentially prevent significant health conditions such as breast, cervical and colorectal cancers, which, combined, are responsible for more than 70,000 annual deaths of women in the US.. Building on the annual Hologic Global Womens Health Index, after surveying 4,0001 women, key findings from the US survey revealed that more than 41% of women skipped screenings for breast cancer, while 35% and 33% skipped screenings for cervical and colorectal cancers, respectively, due to reasons including not knowing it was necessary or important (24%), anxiety (20%), lack of time (20%) or concerns about pain or discomfort (17%).. Additionally, compared to other races, Black women were more likely to say screenings were very important to them and much less likely to have skipped or delayed a screening.. Furthermore, the survey highlighted some of the drivers behind the gap, which include a lack of information, with around three in ten adult Gen Z women and just under one in four Millennials saying it is hard to find the health information they need.. Another factor includes a lack of communication with healthcare professionals (HCP), as crucial conversations about screenings often do not occur and only around 50% of women aged 35 years and over said they had spoken to a HCP about getting screened for cancer, with fewer being screened.. The last driver includes emotional health, which affects 60% of women.. More than six in ten women said that it is hard to prioritise their health, including 75% of women with children in the home.. Other factors included feeling overwhelmed (72%).. Commenting on the findings, Stephen MacMillan, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Hologic, commented: This survey, our first-ever focused on the US, reveals so much about the challenges women face when prioritising their health Our hope is that this survey will be the impetus for more screening awareness, education and policy.