FlyPharma Europe to return to Vienna in October
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The conference will take place at Vienna AirportCity on 23 to 24 October 2024
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Samedan has announced that on 23 to 24 October 2024, its FlyPharma Conference will make a welcome return to Office Park 4, Vienna AirportCity, Austria.. FlyPharma invites forward-thinking professionals and businesses to enhance their pharmaceutical supply chains and take advantage of key networking opportunities, including a pre-conference welcome reception and gala dinner after the first days sessions.. These events provide a valuable chance to connect with senior pharma and logistics experts, build new relationships, and discuss supply chain challenges.. There are a limited number of free all-access delegate passes available for eligible pharma employees  please contact Elena Toma at for more details.. Exhibitor booths and sponsorships are in high demand, with limited availability remaining.. To find out more information about packages and delegate tickets, please contact Simon Caplan at .. Cline Crahay to chair FlyPharma Europe 2024 Conference in ViennaThis years conference will be chaired by Cline Crahay, senior consultant and managing director of 3CeL srl.. Crahay expressed her enthusiasm, stating: Im delighted to be chairing this years FlyPharma Conference where we hope to continue to break down barriers between  and even within  the logistics industry and the pharma industry to better promote efficient and effective solutions.. The steering committee and I want to ensure that this theme runs across the event at every level, so we have integrated this in keynote speeches, networking sessions and even in the additional activities and site tours on offer.. 
Crahay will be joined by a notable group of speakers at FlyPharma Vienna, including Dr sc Zvonimir Majic, who previously held the position of global director of supply chain quality assurance at TEVA, and Ruud van der Geer, assistant director of logistic solutions and EMEA product handling at MSD.. Other esteemed speakers include Vatsala Sadasivan from Sanofi, who leads global operational excellence for research and development, Luiz Barberini, operations manager at Bayer, and Frank Van Gelder, secretary general of Pharma.. Aero.. Their expertise in pharma logistics and supply chain management will offer valuable insights.. Commenting on the positive results from the 2023 conference, Wolfgang Scheibenpflug MRICS, senior vice president of Vienna Airport, stated: After a successful conference in 2023 we are thrilled to be able to bring FlyPharma back to Vienna AirportCity.. 
Scheibenpflug continued: We have a special understanding of the particular needs of the pharma industry, governed by the strict requirements of good distribution practice compliance.. We look forward to welcoming delegates at Vienna Cargo Day, taking place on 22 October 2024 and at the two days of FlyPharma Europe 2024, which promises to be a must-attend gathering for pharma logistics professionals.. 
Tours and workshopsFlyPharma Vienna will offer exclusive tours and workshops, giving delegates a firsthand look at cutting-edge pharma logistics.. Participants can explore DHL Global Forwardings GDP-compliant processes* alongside a new tour for 2024, where delegates will visit Vienna Airports state-of-the-art Pharma Handling Center.. Designed for professionals in supply chain management, quality assurance and compliance, these tours provide insights into the future of pharma logistics.. Additionally, Bernhard Zoidl will lead a workshop on risk assessment in the pharma supply chain, covering GDP compliance and transport validation.. Meanwhile, Frank van Gelders strategic innovation workshop will focus on transforming visions into actionable strategies and managing organisational change to create innovative implementation strategies, drawing inspiration from a groundbreaking example revealed during the workshop.. Gala dinnerThe FlyPharma 2024 gala dinner will take place on the first evening, 23 October, offering an ideal setting for networking.. Delegates will unite for an unforgettable evening of traditional Austrian cuisine, drinks and live music in one of Viennas most iconic venues.. Set against the stunning backdrop of Palais Ferstels Venetian-Florentine-Trecento architecture, guests will be treated to a specially curated menu celebrating the finest Austrian culinary traditions.. Join a vibrant community of pharma logistics professionals and forge industry connections at this highly anticipated conference.. Registration now openFlyPharma will be held at the Vienna AirportCity on 23 to 24 October 2024.. Registration is now open and delegates can register for the conference at .. For sponsorship or exhibition opportunities, or if you are interested in a package that includes attendee tickets, please contact .. If you would like to stay informed about the conference and receive the latest FlyPharma updates, please contact .. *The tour of DHL facilities is operated exclusively by DHL and is available by invitation only.