2 min read 
 
 
 PM Modi to inaugurate Penicillin-G plant in Andhra Pradesh, reviving India's antibiotic production
 
 The Penicillin-G (Pen-G) facility, located in a SEZ at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh, has a production capacity of 15,000 tonne per annum and also 1.. 8 lakh tonne of glucose, while 6-Amino Penicillanic Acid plant has a capacity to produce 3,600 tonne annually, the drug maker had earlier said in a statement.. , 
 
 
 
 
 Updated On Sep 22, 2024 at 01:45 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to inaugurate antibiotic plant in , three decades after the countrys last plant shut down.. Industry executives told ET that decks have been cleared for Hyderabad based to begin production of Penicillin G at their plant at Kakinada in AP.. The company has started producing small batches and will begin full scale production of 300 metric tonnes towards the end of this year, the sources said.. Penicillin G is used in making several antibiotics.. India stopped producing Pen-G about three decades ago and has been dependent on China for them.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 The Penicillin-G (Pen-G) facility, located in a SEZ at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh, has a production capacity of 15,000 tonne per annum and also 1.. 8 lakh tonne of glucose, while 6-Amino Penicillanic Acid plant has a capacity to produce 3,600 tonne annually, the drug maker had earlier said in a statement.. The company said that Penicillin G, Glucose, 6-APA and granulated products will be for captive use, domestic supply and exports, while a vials/ampoules plant will be for export markets.. People in the industry said about 30,000 metric tonnes of penicillin is imported from China.. China ensured closure of production in the entire world, including India, on account of huge government support in terms of subsidies, infrastructure support, ease of doing business (EODB) in the regulatory landscape, and cheap labour, an expert said.. In 2021 the government initiated a for boosting of APIs or KSMs (key starting materials), widening its scope to encourage exports of these raw materials for drug makers.. The scheme was announced for crucial fermentation products, including penicillin g, Aphalosporanic acid 7-aca (used for making antimicrobial drugs), clavulanic acid (to treat bacterial infections), and erythromycin thiocyanate (anti-infectives).. Indias pharmaceuticals industry is the third largest in the world, but is dependent on China for crucial raw materials.. The PLI scheme seeks to reduce this dependency and ensure adequate domestic supply of bulk drugs and APIs, industry executives said.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Along with this Mumbai-based Kinvan Pvt Ltd has also started producing clavulanic acid, a blockbuster active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) that goes into making Augmentin antibiotic.. By 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 22, 2024 at 01:43 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.