1 min read 
 
 
 ICMR partners with industry leaders for groundbreaking First-in-Human Phase-1 clinical trials
 
 ICMR will engage in collaborative research on a small molecule for multiple myeloma with Aurigene Oncology Limited, partner with Indian Immunologicals Limited for the development of a Zika vaccine, coordinate a seasonal influenza virus vaccine trial with Mynvax Private Limited, and advance CAR-T cell therapy for a new indication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in collaboration with ImmunoACT.. , 
 
 
 
 
 Updated On Sep 14, 2024 at 02:31 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Delhi: In a significant step towards bolstering Indias clinical research capabilities, the Indian Council of Medical Research () has signed Memorandum of Agreement (MoAs) with key industry players to conduct First-in-Human Phase-1 for four promising therapeutic candidates under its Phase 1 Clinical Trial Network.. As part of these strategic collaborations, ICMR will work with Limited on a small molecule for multiple myeloma, partner with Limited for development, coordinate a seasonal influenza vaccine trial with Mynvax Private Limited, and explore advancements for with ImmunoACT.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Union Health Minister J P Nadda lauded the partnerships, calling them a pivotal step toward "affordable and accessible cutting-edge treatments" that solidify India's standing as a global leader.. Establishing Phase 1 clinical trial infrastructure is a key component in fostering the development of indigenous molecules and cutting-edge treatments.. Our vision is to expand this network further, ensuring that India continues to lead in the development of innovative and affordable healthcare solutions," said Dr Rajiv Bahl, Secretary, Department of Health Research & Director General, ICMR, added.. The clinical trials will take place at four premier institutions: KEMH & GSMC in Mumbai, ACTREC in Navi Mumbai, SRM MCH&RC in Kattankulathur, and PGIMER in Chandigarh.. A Central Coordinating Unit at ICMR Headquarters, New Delhi, will oversee the operations, ensuring the trials' smooth execution through dedicated infrastructure and manpower at each site.. By 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 14, 2024 at 02:31 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.