1 min read 
 
 
 US Senator Sanders says generic drugmakers could sell Ozempic for less than $100/month
 
 Novo Nordisk CEO Lars Jorgensen is set to testify before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), which Sanders chairs, in a hearing next week focusing on U.. S.. prices for its widely popular Ozempic and weight-loss drug Wegovy.. Updated On Sep 18, 2024 at 02:42 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru: U.. S.. Senator said on Tuesday he received confirmation from major generic pharmaceutical companies that they could sell copycat versions of 's for less than $100 a month.. WHY IT'S IMPORTANT Novo Nordisk CEO Lars Jorgensen is set to testify before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP), which Sanders chairs, in a hearing next week focusing on U.. S.. prices for its widely popular Ozempic and Wegovy.. KEY QUOTE Sanders said he spoke to the chief executives of several major over the past few months.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 "They have studied the matter and they tell me that they can sell a generic version of Ozempic, the exact same drug that Novo Nordisk is manufacturing, to Americans for less than $100 per month," he said.. Sanders did not name the companies to which he spoke.. Ozempic's patent is not set to expire in the United States until 2032.. CONTEXT Ozempic, which has the same active ingredient as Wegovy and is used off-label for weight loss, belongs to the popular , which has seen overwhelming demand in the United States.. Some analysts have forecast the total market for weight-loss drugs to reach $150 billion by the early 2030s.. However, this comes amid criticism from lawmakers over the high costs associated with these medications.. BY THE NUMBERS A month's supply of Novo's Ozempic carries a U.. S.. list price of $935.. 77 while Wegovy lists for $1,349.. 02 per month, according to the drugmaker's website, although most consumers pay less.. (Reporting by Mariam Sunny in Bengaluru; Editing by Krishna Chandra Eluri) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 18, 2024 at 02:38 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.