1 min read 
 
 
 Fulcrum stock slumps after muscle disorder drug fails in late-stage study
 
 FSHD is a genetic disorder that causes muscle weakness and wasting in the face, shoulder blades and upper arms.. The estimated prevalence of the disease is about 4 cases per 100,000 individuals, according to the Muscle Dystrophy Association.. Updated On Sep 13, 2024 at 03:14 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: said on Thursday its to treat a type of muscle disorder failed to meet the main goal in a , sending the company's shares down nearly 70 per cent before the bell.. The company was testing its drug, losmapimod, in 260 patients with facioscapulohumeral (FSHD) who received either the therapy or a placebo for 48 weeks.. At the end of treatment period, patients who received the drug did not show improvement on a measure of shoulder and proximal arm mobility - the main goal of the study.. The study also failed to achieve statistical significance on any of its secondary goals.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 In light of the results, the company said it plans to suspend testing of losmapimod in FSHD patients.. FSHD is a that causes and wasting in the face, shoulder blades and upper arms.. The estimated prevalence of the disease is about 4 cases per 100,000 individuals, according to the Muscle Dystrophy Association.. (Reporting by Bhanvi Satija in Bengaluru; Editing by Vijay Kishore) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 13, 2024 at 03:10 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.