1 min read 
 
 
 Zenas BioPharma raises $225 mln in US IPO
 
 The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company, which was incorporated in 2019, plans to use the IPO proceeds to advance the clinical development of obexelimab and prepare for its potential launch in the United States and Europe, pending approval.. Updated On Sep 13, 2024 at 03:08 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: Zenas BioPharma, which develops immunology-based therapies, said on Thursday that it has raised $225 million in its U.. S.. initial public offering (IPO).. The , backed by drugmaker , priced its offering of 13.. 2 million shares at $17 apiece, the midpoint of its targeted range of $16 to $18 per share.. Despite 2024 being touted as a comeback year by several analysts, the U.. S.. IPO market has struggled to gain traction.. have resulted in several firms abandoning their plans to go public.. Zenas, which does not have any products approved for commercial sale, is developing its lead candidate obexelimab for the treatment of various immunology and inflammation diseases.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 These include multiple sclerosis, a chronic neurological disorder, and (SLE), a chronic disease where the attacks its own tissues.. The Waltham, Massachusetts-based company, which was incorporated in 2019, plans to use the IPO proceeds to advance the and prepare for its potential launch in the United States and Europe, pending approval.. Zenas will list on the on Friday under the ticker symbol "ZBIO".. Biotechnology company MBX Biosciences and biopharmaceutical firm Bicara Therapeutics are also set to go public on Friday alongside Zenas.. Morgan Stanley, Jefferies, Citigroup Global Markets and Zenas' offering.. (Reporting by Rishabh Jaiswal and Pritam Biswas in Bengaluru; Editing by Tasim Zahid and Sonia Cheema) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 13, 2024 at 02:57 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.