1 min read 
 
 
 Panacea Biotec gets $20 million loan from US government for hexavalent vaccine capacity expansion
 
 Panacea Biotec has secured a $20 million long-term loan from the US International Development Finance Corporation to expand its hexavalent vaccine production.. This funding will help the company meet global demand for childhood immunization, supplying vaccines to UN agencies.. The hexavalent vaccine, EasySix, protects against six diseases and is expected to see significant demand growth by 2030.. , 
 
 
 
 
 Updated On Sep 13, 2024 at 06:59 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Delhi: on Thursday said the US International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), has agreed to provide a long-term loan of up to $20 million to the company for capacity-expansion of its .. DFCs financing will enable Panacea to expedite completion of the ongoing expansion and supply the hexavalent vaccine to United Nations (UN) agencies for childhood immunisation globally.. is expanding manufacturing capacity for drug substance antigens used in its hexavalent vaccine EasySix to meet future demand from U.. N.. agencies and .. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 The World Health Organisation and Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunisation approved adoption of this hexavalent vaccine in the global immunisation program.. Following this, Gavi and the Pan American Health Organisation also adopted the hexavalent vaccine.. UNICEF forecasts the demand for a wP-IPV-based hexavalent vaccine for Gavi countries to be 19 million doses in 2025 and over 100 million doses by 2030.. Panacea developed the worlds first whole-cell pertussis(wP) and inactivated polio vaccine (IPV)-based, fully liquid hexavalent (six-in-one) vaccine called EasySix.. The vaccine was launched in India in March 2017.. The vaccine protects children from diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), tetanus, hepatitis B, Haemophilus influensae type B (Hib) which causes pneumonia and meningitis and polio.. Currently, the routine immunisation involves taking pentavalent (5-in-1) and inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) separately, the hexavalent which includes IPV leads to less vaccination sessions and higher coverage.. By 
 
 
 
 , 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 13, 2024 at 06:56 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.