1 min read 
 
 
 Bavarian Nordic sees potential to ramp up mpox vaccine capacity
 
  Bavarian Nordic said on Thursday it could supply 13 million doses of its mpox vaccine by the end of 2025, up from a previous forecast of 10 million doses, and is exploring options to significantly expand its capacity.. Updated On Sep 13, 2024 at 07:13 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Copenhagen: said on Thursday it could supply 13 million doses of its by the end of 2025, up from a previous forecast of 10 million doses, and is exploring options to significantly expand its capacity.. The Danish biotech company said it had also identified measures that could boost supply by a further 50 million doses within the next 12-18 months, subject to regulatory approvals and market demand.. "It depends first and foremost on demand.. If the demand is there and the other conditions are in place, we have the opportunity to increase by another 50 million doses," Bavarian's head of investor relations Rolf Sass Sorensen said.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 The World Health Organisation declared mpox a last month but efforts to curb the spread of the disease have been hampered by a lack of vaccines.. Sorensen said supply also hinges on ongoing discussions about collaborations with partners in Africa and elsewhere regarding the transfer of manufacturing, alongside the adoption of other methods and technologies with a higher yield.. "It could perhaps be that you get help to make fill-and-finish," Sorensen said.. Bavarian said certain existing orders for mpox vaccines based on contracts with the U.. S.. government would be pushed back to 2025 from 2024 in order to meet other market needs.. The , the epicentre of the latest mpox outbreak, received its first batch of mpox vaccines last week.. (Reporting by Louise Breusch Rasmussen and Stine Jacobsen, editing by Essi Lehto, Terje Solsvik and Christina Fincher) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 13, 2024 at 07:10 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.