1 min read 
 
 
 Eli Lilly invests $1.. 8 bln in Ireland sites to scale up Alzheimer's, obesity drug production
 
 In the U.. S.. , Lilly quickly built a market share of around 40% since launching Zepbound in December.. Analysts believe that as Lilly increases its manufacturing capacity, the market could be roughly split 50-50 between Lilly and Novo Nordisk by the end of this year.. Updated On Sep 12, 2024 at 05:20 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: Eli Lilly is investing $1.. 8 billion across two manufacturing sites in Ireland to boost production of its and a newly approved treatment for Alzheimer's, the drugmaker said on Thursday.. The investments are part of to expand production, especially for its top-selling diabetes and obesity drugs, Mounjaro and Zepbound, respectively.. The company has committed over $20 billion since 2020 to build and in the U.. S.. and Europe.. The company said it has invested roughly $800 million in its new facility in Kinsale, Ireland, which began manufacturing Lilly's obesity and .. Demand for Zepbound has outpaced supply for most of this year.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 The rest of the investment will go towards expanding the drugmaker's facility in Limerick, Ireland, which will focus on producing for certain drugs, including the Alzheimer's treatment.. Lilly's drug for Alzheimer's received U.. S.. approval in July and is currently and UK health regulators.. Danish rival Novo Nordisk has also invested billions in of its popular weight-loss drug Wegovy, including a $11 billion deal to take over three sites from .. In the U.. S.. , Lilly quickly built a market share of around 40 per cent since launching Zepbound in December.. Analysts believe that as Lilly increases its manufacturing capacity, the market could be roughly split 50-50 between Lilly and Novo Nordisk by the end of this year.. Some analysts forecast the market for new weight-loss drugs could reach $150 billion annually by the early 2030s.. (Reporting by Bhanvi Satija in Bengaluru; Editing by Janane Venkatraman) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 12, 2024 at 05:14 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.