2 min read 
 
 
 Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw calls for innovation-driven value creation in India's biotech sector
 
 Mazumdar-Shaw called for a shift in focus toward value creation through innovation.. "India ranks 14th in terms of value in the global pharma landscape.. We need to invest in R&D and foster a culture of intellectual property to capture greater value," she said.. Updated On Sep 12, 2024 at 06:09 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 New Delhi: on Thursday called for more investment in research and development to drive innovation and foster culture of intellectual property.. She highlighted how the country, already the world's largest exporter of generics and a major player in vaccine production, can achieve greater value by nurturing innovation.. called for a shift in focus toward value creation through innovation.. "India ranks 14th in terms of value in the global pharma landscape.. We need to invest in R&D and foster a culture of intellectual property to capture greater value," she said.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 Addressing a session during the event, she positioned the country as a future global leader in biosciences and innovation.. Mazumdar-Shaw emphasized India's unique advantages in becoming a global bio-innovation hub, citing the nation's rich scientific talent, robust technological capabilities, and entrepreneurial drive.. "Biology is not only the most exciting and transformative field of our time, but it has also become the new frontier where we are pushing the boundaries of human knowledge and capability," Mazumdar-Shaw said.. She highlighted how biosciences, once confined to the laboratory, are now permeating nearly every aspect of human existence, from medicine and agriculture to environmental conservation and technology.. "We are witnessing a revolution in healthcare driven by genetics, RNA, and that offer unprecedented precision.. In the near future, genetic diseases like cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy may be cured entirely," she said.. CRISPR is a gene editing technology that can be used to modify DNA in living organisms.. She also highlighted the , with its Rs 10,000 crore outlay aimed at promoting basic research and critical technologies.. On the agricultural front, Mazumdar-Shaw underscored the importance of biotechnology in ensuring .. Mazumdar-Shaw also reflected on India's existing strengths in the , noting that the country is the world's third-largest manufacturer of medicines by volume and the largest exporter of generics.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 "One in three pills consumed in the U.. S.. and one in four in the U.. K.. are produced in India," she stated, underscoring the scale of India's pharmaceutical production.. Published On Sep 12, 2024 at 06:01 PM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.