2 min read 
 
 
 US FDA staff questions confirmatory trial data for Intercept's liver disease drug
 
 Intercept's oral drug, Ocaliva, had been approved under the accelerated approval pathway to treat patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), a rare disease that causes inflammation of small bile ducts in the liver and can eventually destroy them.. Updated On Sep 12, 2024 at 07:08 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 London: Staff reviewers at the said on Wednesday a confirmatory trial did not show the drug, which received the health regulator's accelerated nod in 2016.. Under the accelerated pathway, additional trials to establish their drug's benefits.. Failure to do so can .. Intercept's oral drug, Ocaliva, had been approved under the accelerated with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), a rare disease that causes in the liver and can eventually destroy them.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 In 2021, FDA restricted use of Ocaliva to PBC patients who did not have of the liver.. The FDA had said some patients with advanced cirrhosis who received Ocaliva developed liver failure.. The staff advisers said on Wednesday Ocaliva's confirmatory trial did not show the drug was effective in PBC patients with or without advanced scarring.. They also raised concerns about the drug's safety, as 11 patients who received it during the trial died or required a liver transplant, compared with two patients on placebo.. The concerns come ahead of a meeting of independent experts on Friday, where panelists will vote on whether the drug's benefits outweigh its risks.. Intercept said only one case of liver transplant was possibly related to the drug.. The company, which holds the drug's U.. S.. commercial rights, was acquired by Italy's Alfasigma for nearly $800 million last year.. Intercept had reported sales of $152 million for the first half of 2023.. The FDA last month granted accelerated approval to Gilead's drug for treating PBC, Livdelzi.. Accelerated approvals allow FDA to move drugs for life-threatening conditions to the market more quickly, but they have been criticised because some drugs are later proven to be ineffective.. (Reporting by Bhanvi Satija in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber and Shreya Biswas)3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 12, 2024 at 07:03 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.