1 min read 
 
 
 US FDA expands J&J's psoriasis drug for inflammatory bowel disease
 
 J&J has been betting on Tremfya, as its other blockbuster drug for psoriasis and ulcerative colitis, Stelara, is looking at a patent cliff - which occurs when a company loses its patent protection, allowing cheaper biosimilars to enter the market.. Updated On Sep 12, 2024 at 07:14 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Read by:
 
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 Read by
 100 Industry Professionals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 By Sriparna Roy and Bhanvi SatijaLondon: The has allowed the , Tremfya, to treat adults with a type of , the company said on Wednesday.. The approval paves the way for another treatment option for patients with ulcerative colitis, which causes inflammation and ulcers in the colon and rectum.. Drugmakers such as AbbVie, Eli Lilly and J&J are hustling for a share in an already-crowded, multi-billion market for .. J&J has been betting on Tremfya, as its other blockbuster drug for psoriasis and ulcerative colitis, Stelara, is looking at a patent cliff - which occurs when a company loses its patent protection, to enter the market.. Advt
 
 
 
 
 
 In a late-stage trial, were able to achieve endoscopic remission - a state where no signs of inflammation, ulcers or bleeding are visible during an endoscopy.. Chris Gasink, who looks over J&J's U.. S.. Medical Affairs said the company was ready to make the drug available to eligible patients within "a week or two" after the FDA's decision.. of over $10 billion this year, according to LSEG data, of which 75 per cent are expected from sales for inflammatory bowel diseases.. Tremfya, which targets a called IL-23, will be J&J's fourth in the market.. (Reporting by Sriparna Roy, Bhanvi Satija and Puyaan Singh in Bengaluru; Editing by Shilpi Majumdar and Krishna Chandra Eluri) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Published On Sep 12, 2024 at 07:09 AM IST
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be the first one to comment.. COMMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All Comments 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 By commenting, you agree to the 
 
 
 
 
 Find this Comment Offensive?
 Choose your reason below and click on the submit button.. This will alert our moderators to take actions
 
 REASONS FOR REPORTING
 
 
 
 Foul Language
 
 
 
 Defamatory
 
 
 
 Inciting hatred against a certain community
 
 
 
 Out of Context / Spam
 
 
 
 Others 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Join the community of 2M+ industry professionals 
 Subscribe to our newsletter to get latest insights & analysis.